Yd psa branch (#14)
thomas-fossati/draft-psa-endorsements: draft-xyz-rats-psa-endorsements.md

> --- abstract

Author: HAs attempted to modify, please have a look!

This memo describes the data formats used to convey PSA Endorsements to an Attestation Verifier.

> PSA Endorsements comprise of reference values, cryptographic key material and

Reviewer: are comprised of?

the (green) new meaning seems different=

> PSA Endorsements comprise of reference values, cryptographic key material and

Reviewer 2: > the (green) new meaning seems different? seems to be a native speaker thing.

not sure what you mean :-)

> PSA Endorsements comprise of reference values, cryptographic key material and

Author: I think the correct usage as per the English verb uses is "Comprises"

> PSA Endorsements comprise of reference values, cryptographic key material and

Author: I have changed and used that in all places!

certification status information that a Verifier needs in order to appraise PSA
Evidence.

--- middle

> # Introduction

Author: Have attempted to re-organize it, please have a look!

> Trusted Computing Group has come up with an Endorsement Architecture. This architecture defines an information model that represents a composition of a device which comprises of various hardware, embedded firmware and software elements and their associated endorsements.

Author: Agree, will change as appropriate!

> Trusted Computing Group has come up with an Endorsement Architecture. This architecture defines an information model that represents a composition of a device which comprises of various hardware, embedded firmware and software elements and their associated endorsements.

Author: Agree, changed it now!

--- abstract

> PSA Endorsements comprises reference values, cryptographic key material and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PSA Endorsements comprise reference values, cryptographic key material and
```

Author: No comprises is the correct usage, I checked it on the internet yesterday! Leave it like this it is the most correct semantic

Author: When you have multiple items then the correct verb to use here is comprises

Author: https://grammar.yourdictionary.com/grammar-rules-and-tips/comprise-vs-compose.html

Reviewer 2: I don't understand:  "Endorsements" (plural) needs the third-person plural of the verb "comprise".

certification status information that a Verifier needs in order to appraise PSA
Evidence.

This memo describes the data formats used to convey PSA Endorsements to an Attestation Verifier.
The format presented in this document is a PSA specific profile of CoRIM/CoMID based information model presented in

> Trusted Computing Group (TCG) Endorsement Architecture.

Reviewer 2: Just a note: I think all these references to TCG are going to be made replaced to refs to draft-birkholz-corim as soon as it gets published.

Author: Correct, needs references to be added once published!

{: #sec-psa-endorsements }

PSA Endorsements describe an attesting device in terms of the hardware and
firmware components, that make up its PSA Root of Trust (RoT). This includes
the identification and expected state of the device as well as the
cryptographic key material needed to verify evidence signed by the device's PSA
RoT. Additionally, PSA Endorsements also include information related to the
certification status of the attesting device.

There are three basic types of PSA endorsements:

* Reference Values ({{sec-ref-values}}), i.e. measurements of the PSA RoT
  firmware;
* Identity Claims ({{sec-identity}}), i.e., cryptographic keys that can be used
  to verify signed Evidence produced by the PSA RoT and the associated identifiers that
  bind the keys to their device instances.
* Certification Claims ({{sec-certificates}}), i.e., metadata that describes 
  the status of certification of a PSA device or to a specific hardware or firmware RoT, within
  a PSA device.

## Reference Values
{: #sec-ref-values}

Reference Values carry measurements and other metadata associated with the

> updatable entities in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Reviewer 2: why entities?

Author: Changed!

{: #sec-psa-endorsements }

PSA Endorsements describe an attesting device in terms of the hardware and
firmware components that make up its PSA Root of Trust (RoT). This includes
the identification and expected state of the device as well as the
cryptographic key material needed to verify Evidence signed by the device's PSA
RoT. Additionally, PSA Endorsements can include information related to the
certification status of the attesting device.

There are three basic types of PSA endorsements:

* Reference Values ({{sec-ref-values}}), i.e., measurements of the PSA RoT
  firmware;
* Identity Claims ({{sec-identity}}), i.e., cryptographic keys that can be used
  to verify signed Evidence produced by the PSA RoT and the associated identifiers that
  bind the keys to their device instances.
* Certification Claims ({{sec-certificates}}), i.e., metadata that describe
  the certification status associated with a PSA device.

## Reference Values
{: #sec-ref-values}

Reference Values carry measurements and other metadata associated with the

> updatable components in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Author: we can change it to elements!

> updatable components in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what is wrong with the original text?  Why is firmware wrong and need to be changed?

> updatable components in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Author: technically update component can be anything right, not just firmware,

> updatable components in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Reviewer 2: My only intent is to clarify precisely what we mean.  Clearly you think that the term firmware is too limited, but what else do we allow updating?  We should be able to give that "something" (is it configuration? or something else?) a name and be precise instead of using a wildcard term.  Otherwise let's stick to firmware.

> updatable components in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier

Author: ok, I will change this!

~~~
{: #ex-reference-value title="Example Reference Value"}

## Identity

> 

Reviewer 2: the reference anchor must be adjacent to the element it refers to (in this case the section's title)
```suggestion
```

Author: This was giving a warning that Headings should be surrounded by blank lines!

{: #sec-identity}

Identity Claims carry the verification key associated with the Initial
Attestation Key (IAK) of a PSA device.

Each verification key is encoded alongside the corresponding device Instance ID
in a CoMID identity claim.

> The Instance ID is encoded using `tagged-ueid` as `$device-id-type`.

Reviewer 2: please make sure you have checked all CoMID-related stuff against the most up-to-date CDDL
```suggestion
The Instance ID is encoded using `tagged-ueid-type` as `$device-id-type-choice`.
```

The IAK public key is encoded as a COSE Key according to Section 7 of
{{!RFC8152}} and wrapped in the `COSE_KeySet`. The number of items in the
`COSE_KeySet` MUST be 1.

The example in {{ex-identity-claim}} shows a CoMID identity claim carrying a
secp256r1 EC public IAK associated with Instance ID `4ca3...d296`.

~~~
{::include examples/instance-pub.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-identity-claim title="Example Identity Claim"}

> ### CoMID Layout

Reviewer 2: This extra level seems superflous.  The one-liner below can go in the same section.

An Identity CoMID can carry as many Identity Claims as needed.

## Certification

> 

Reviewer 2: the ref anchor must be attached to the element it refers to
```suggestion
```

Author: This was giving a warning that Headings should be surrounded by blank lines!

{: #sec-certificates}

A PSA Certification certify a PSA device or a PSA hardware or software RoT, within a PSA device.
PSA Certification claim contains the metadata about the certificate. The claim is 

> expressed by creating a new CoMID Tag for provisioning certification details.

Reviewer 2: the content is OK but needs some re-org / cleanup

Reviewer 2: In particular, we need to say what are the identifiers that are at play here.

Author: Have tidied up a bit to clarify a bit more!

Within a CoMID tag, certification claim is encoded in a CoMID endorsement map.  Specifically:

> * The Implementation ID is encoded using the module type (2) entry in the

Reviewer 2: It looks like "module type" is a thing of the past :-) IIRC it's class-id-type (or similar)

> * The Implementation ID is encoded using the module type (2) entry in the

Author: Done changed in now! Well Spotted!

>   `element-name` map with a `tagged-impl-id` type;

Reviewer 2: ditto for these two

> * The metadata associated with the certification is encoded using the extension
>   in endorsed-value-map.`cert-meta` structure extends the `endorsed-value` map and
>   carries various attributes of a certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The metadata associated with the certification are encoded in a
  `psa-cert-meta` structure which extends the `endorsed-value-map`.
```

  
* The CoMID linked tags contain one or more entries of linked-tag-map, each entry carries
  tag id of CoMID, which it certifies and tag-rel type set to `comid.supplements` relation, 

>   as illustrated in {{fig-cert-link}}.

Reviewer 2: is this needed?  The Implementation ID should be enough with regards to grouping all the relevant certification tags that apply, while the certification info should provide the details about what exactly is certified.

Author: As per my understanding, The individual software or a group of software items that the CoMID certifies can be identified correctly using the linked tag? Not sure whether the certification information would exactly resolve this linkage, so will retain it for now..

> The sematics of Provisioning certificates is illustrated in {{fig-cert-ext}}.

Reviewer 2: strictly speaking that's just an example, the semantics should be provided somewhere else (e.g., expanding the bullet list below).

I think we should: first provide the CDDL structure, secondly the semantics of the fields, and finally a working example.

A PSA Certification data element has the following attributes:

> * `level`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `level`: PSA certification level.  Acceptable values are x, y, z...
```

* `certificateNumber`
* `dateOfIssue`
* `testLab`
* `certificationHolder`
* `certifiedProduct`
* `hardwareVersion`
* `softwareVersion`
* `certificationType`
* `developerType`

~~~

> {::include art/cert.txt}

Reviewer 2: have you committed this file?

Author: Yes it is committed!

~~~
{: #fig-cert-link title="Certification Link to the RoT been certified"}

~~~
{::include examples/cert-val.diag}
~~~
{: #fig-cert-ext title="Example Certification Claim"}

## PSA Provisioning Model

Two provisioning models are envisioned, for provisioning PSA Endorsements. Atomic model where each measured and updatable component of PSA RoT is expressed independently and hence each component has its own upgrade chain.

> Bundled model, where all the measured and updatable components of a PSA RoT are bundled together and are treated as single entity from the point of view of upgrade chain. The choice between atomic and bundled model depends upon the use case and individual deployment needs. One needs to make a choice at start

Reviewer 2: maybe make it an itemised list with refs into the relevant subsections

{::include art/atomic.txt}
~~~
{: #fig-atomic title="Atomic Provisioning Model"}

A limitation of this model is that it may not be able to distinguish between a valid software RoT ( i.e. an
expected combination of software component versions) from an invalid one.

### Bundled
{: #sec-bundled}
In the bundled provisioning model all firmware components associated with a hardware RoT are grouped together in a single
CoMID tag. The CoMID tag contains the identifier for the platform RoT associated to the PSA device. CoMID tag has a Reference Value Map which is used to carry a list of Reference Values ({{sec-ref-values}}). Each entry in the list carries the measurements associated to a firmware component. This model is applicable if the device firmware is made of separately measurable components however these components are always installed together in a single firmware update operation. In this model, the evolution of the versions of firmware component is collectively tracked using the CoMID updates and patches relations.

~~~ goat
{::include art/bundled.txt}
~~~
{: #fig-bundled title="Bundled Provisioning Model"}

Each tagged edge is the CoMID-to-CoMID link relation describing an

> update or patch action on the target node by the source node.

Reviewer 2: content is OK but it needs some reorg / reflow.

Author: have used bullets now for Atomic and Bundled and added links to the individual sections, so that it connects nicely!

~~~
{: #ex-reference-value title="Example Reference Value"}

## Identity
{: #sec-identity}

Identity Claims carry the verification key associated with the Initial
Attestation Key (IAK) of a PSA device.

Each verification key is encoded alongside the corresponding device Instance ID
in a CoMID identity claim.

> The Instance ID is encoded using `tagged-ueid-type` as `$device-id-type-choice`.

Reviewer 2: we can make it similar to ref-val:
```suggestion
The Instance ID is encoded using the `$device-id-type-choice` (0) entry in the `identity-claim-map` with a `tagged-ueid-type` type.
```

> The IAK public key is encoded as a COSE Key according to Section 7 of

Reviewer 2: here we should say which entry of the indentity-claim-map this goes into (similarly to the above)

Author: Added!

{{!RFC8152}} and wrapped in the `COSE_KeySet`. The number of items in the
`COSE_KeySet` MUST be 1.

The example in {{ex-identity-claim}} shows a CoMID identity claim carrying a
secp256r1 EC public IAK associated with Instance ID `4ca3...d296`.

An Identity CoMID can carry as many Identity Claims as needed.

~~~
{::include examples/instance-pub.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-identity-claim title="Example Identity Claim"}

## Certification
{: #sec-certificates}

A PSA Certification can certify PSA hardware, software RoT or the complete device.
Specifically, it can certify one of the following:

> * The underlying platform, identified by the Impementation ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The underlying platform, identified by the Impementation ID;
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * One or more firmware components of the mutable PSA RoT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* One or more firmware components of the mutable PSA RoT;
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * To entire PSA device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The entire PSA device.
```

> PSA Certification claim contains the metadata about the certificate. The claim is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A PSA Certification claim contains the metadata about the certificate. The claim is 
```

expressed by creating a new CoMID Tag for provisioning certification details.

The certification status is encoded as a CoMID endorsement as follows:

> * The Implementation ID of the PSA RoT to which the certification metadata apply, is encoded 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Implementation ID of the PSA RoT to which the certification metadata apply is encoded 
```

>   using the class-id-type-choice (2) entry in the `element-name` map with a `tagged-impl-id` type;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  using the `class-id-type-choice` (2) entry in the `element-name-map` with a `tagged-impl-id` type;
```

> * The metadata associated with the certification is encoded in a `comid.psa-cert-meta` structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The metadata associated with the certification is encoded in a `psa-cert-meta` structure
```

Author: no I would leave it to the exact name as we used in CDDL.

Reviewer 2: but the sentence is wrong because comid.psa-cert-meta is not a structure.  My suggestion too was wrong because it  should say `psa-cert-meta-map` instead.

>   which extends the `endorsed-value-map`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  which extends the `endorsed-value-map` through the `$$endorsed-value-map-extension` socket.
```

> * Optionally, the CoMID linked tags can contain one or more entries of linked-tag-map, each entry carries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The CoMID MAY contain one or more `linked-tag-map` entries carrying the
```

>   tag id of CoMID, which it certifies and tag-rel type set to `comid.supplements` relation,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  tag id of the CoMID corresponding to the certified module with `$tag-rel-type-choice` set to `comid.supplements`,
```

  as illustrated in {{fig-cert-link}}.

A PSA Certification data element has the following attributes:

> * `cert-level-type-choice`    : PSA certification level.  Acceptable values are x, y, z...

Reviewer 2: x, y and z are not acceptable values :-)

Author: I will remove this comment as CDDL is now clear to state how exactly it is set..

No need to explain here!

> * `cert-level-type-choice`    : PSA certification level.  Acceptable values are x, y, z...

Reviewer 2: as per TYPOGRAPHY.md the type choice has a `$` prefix
```suggestion
* `$cert-level-type-choice`    : PSA certification level.  Acceptable values are x, y, z...
```

Author: Here we should avoid $ sign in my view, the name in description should match.

Reviewer 2: it would create an inconsistency

Author: I would prefer we remove $ from the description text and keep it only for CDDL, everywhere in the .md file.

.md would describe the parameters and syntax to be followed is in CDDL.

Reviewer 2: if you don't want the `$` we could use the code points instead of the types.

Author: I think, it is already clear as we are depicting CDDL mostly below the explanation, so if we match the name text then we do not need to bother about explicit CDDL semantics in the explaination.

Code points will be just numbers, which will be even more confusing to the reader!

Reviewer 2: The "matching mostly" (but not entirely) is the confusing bit IMO, which we should avoid.

Author: I mean we are depicting CDDL below the text. The text can contain the variable and it is logical to expect user to read the variable and its explanation and then infer from CDDL that is a choice. I do not see anything problematic here.
Any sensible reader can make sense with the variable name!

* `cert-num-type`             : A unique number for each certificate

> * `cert-issue-date-type`      : Certificate date of issue, formatted as per RFC 3339 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `cert-issue-date-type`      : Certificate date of issue, formatted as {{!RFC3339}} full-date (e.g., 2020-12-31)
```

> * `cert-test-lab-type`        : Name of the certication lab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `cert-test-lab-type`        : Name of the certification lab
```

* `cert-holder-type`          : Name of Organization which holds the certificate
* `cert-product-type`         : Name of the product been certified
* `cert-hw-version-type`      : Version of Hardware certified
* `cert-sw-version-type`      : Version of Software certified
* `cert-type-type`            : Further details on certification

> * `cert-dev-type-type-choice` : Type of certificate, Chip, Device or System Software

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `$cert-dev-type-type-choice` : Type of certificate.  Acceptable values are: Chip, Device or System Software
```

Author: Again I would prefer not to use $ in the explanation!

Reviewer 2: ditto

Author: I would prefer to remove $ reference from all CDDL names here unilaterally and leave it to CDDL sections, just makes reading simpler and clear for the reader!

Reviewer 2: see https://github.com/thomas-fossati/draft-psa-endorsements/pull/14#discussion_r621160154

The `comid.psa-cert-meta` map is as follows:

~~~
{::include psa-ext/cert-meta.cddl}
~~~

> The provisioning linkage of Certification CoMID to the RoT CoMID is illustrated in {{fig-cert-link}}.

Reviewer 2: what you mean by "provisioning linkage"?  (i.e., why is "provisioning" needed?)

~~~
{::include art/cert.txt}
~~~
{: #fig-cert-link title="Certification Link to the RoT been certified"}

> The example in {{ex-cert-ext}} shows a CoMID endorsement claim carrying a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example in {{ex-cert-ext}} shows a CoMID endorsement claim carrying
```

certification metadata associated to Implementation ID
`acme-implementation-id-000000001`.

~~~
{::include examples/cert-val.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-cert-ext title="Example Certification Claim"}

> The example in {{ex-cert-val-link}} shows the link entry to CoMID tag, been certified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example in {{ex-cert-val-link}} shows the link entry to the CoMID tag being supplemented with certification information.
```

~~~
{::include examples/cert-val-link.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-cert-val-link title="Example Certification CoMID Linkage"}

## PSA Provisioning Model

> Two provisioning models are envisioned, for provisioning PSA Endorsements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two provisioning models are envisioned for provisioning PSA Endorsements.
```

Author: I think , make sense here for a pause and sets context?

Reviewer 2: it's one sentence, the comma is unneeded

* Atomic model ({{sec-atmoic}}), where each measured and updatable component of PSA RoT is expressed independently and hence each component has its own upgrade chain.

> * Bundled model ({{sec-bundled}}), where all the measured and updatable components of a PSA RoT are bundled together and are treated as single entity from the point of view of upgrade chain. The choice between atomic and bundled model depends upon the use case and individual deployment needs. One needs to make a choice at start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Bundled model ({{sec-bundled}}), where all the measured and updatable components of a PSA RoT are bundled together and are treated as single entity from the point of view of upgrade chain.

The choice between atomic and bundled model depends upon the use case and individual deployment needs. One needs to make a choice at start
```

Each tagged edge is the CoMID-to-CoMID link relation describing an
update or patch action on the target node by the source node.

### Firmware Updates and Patches

{: #sec-fw-evo}

Firmware measurements that are part of the same upgrade chain can be linked
together using one of `comid.patches` or `comid.updates` relations, depending on
the precise nature of their relationship.  For example, if using semantic
versioning {{SEMA-VER}}, a bump in the MINOR version number would be associated
with a `comid.updates` relation, whereas an increase in the PATCH indicator
would have a corresponding `comid.patches` relation between the involved
components.  Note that `comid.updates` relations would only occur between
firmware measurements that have PATCH number 0 and "adjacent" MINOR numbers
as illustrated in {{fig-updates-patches}}.  Note that changing the MAJOR
version number would typically result in a separate product / upgrade chain.

~~~ goat
{::include art/updates-patches.txt}
~~~
{: #fig-updates-patches title="Updates, Patches Relations and Semantic Versioning"}

The Reference Value CoMID of the patching or updating firmware has a
`linked-tag-entry` map populated as follows:

> * key 0 contains the tag identifier of the Reference Value CoMID of the patched

Reviewer 2: instead of key 0 and key 1 we should use their names

Author: Agree!

  or updated firmware;
* key 1 contains one of `comid.patches` or `comid.updates` relations.

{{ex-linked-tag}} provides an example of a Reference Value CoMID patching

> another Reference Value CoMID with a UUID tag identifier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
another Reference Value CoMID with tag identifier
```

~~~
{: #ex-reference-value title="Example Reference Value"}

## Identity
{: #sec-identity}

Identity Claims carry the verification key associated with the Initial
Attestation Key (IAK) of a PSA device.

Each verification key is encoded alongside the corresponding device Instance ID
in a CoMID identity claim.

The Instance ID is encoded using the `$device-id-type-choice` (0) entry in the `identity-claim-map` with a `tagged-ueid-type` type.

> The IAK public key is set in comid.key-material entry in the `identity-claim-map`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The IAK public key is set in the `COSE_KeySet` (1) entry in the `identity-claim-map`.
```
